Hyde will come back in this video I'd like to introduce you to a flask in the section we've already
looked at retrieving data from an API and we've used that to log in with Twitter.
And I hope that was a bit of a learning experience not only quote unquote how to log in with Twitter
but also how API is work that the web works via web requests and that uses DP and there's a bunch of
verbs you can use if when requesting from API to just get usually means to retrieve some data.
Post usually means you are adding some data.
Put the Leite.
There's a few others.
We've also learned a bit more about cleaning up our code Object-Oriented Programming is saving the old
tokens to the database.
We've learned about O Mouth.
We've learned a few things but now it's time to take that to the next level and instead of just stopping
at this kind of nice command line application that allows us to add a user via Twitter and print out
some pinkest I think we can do better than that.
So in the next few videos I'm going to be introducing you to flask and a flask is another python library
which allows you to create web applications.
Now what this means is that instead of just requesting data from an API we are going to be creating
an API and more than that we're going to be creating just the I really we're going to be creating just
an interface into our program is not going to be used for Application Programming is going to be used
by our users and it's just going to be essentially what is normally known as a web site or a web application
.
So we're going to be creating a web interface into our applications where users can view our application
logon with Twitter you know see images from a filter and that sort of stuff.
OK.
So in this video let's just install the requirement and set a most basic app up.
Let's go into the requirements not takes the file and add a new library.
It's going to be flask with a capital F equal equal 0.10 point one.
This version of flask has been the latest version for a while.
So when it does change a lot of things are going to change.
I recommend you use this specific version and you can do that by doing equal equal 0.10 we want like
so.
And and what I mean with that is that in a few years down the line when the version does change to 0.11
so many things are going to be different that your application will stop working unless you specify
this version.
OK then let's reichlich the project and create a new python file called app and then install flask them
.
And now we can create our most basic flask application.
But first remember Twitter has an API and that API is just like a web.
You are real history P colon slash slash API dot Twitter dot com blah blah blah.
It's just like a normal web site except when you make a request to it you need to send in your authorization
tokens and when you get back is instead of a web page it's some Jason code.
Remember the treats and stuff that we go back what we are going to be doing is exactly the same thing
as the Twitter API.
We're going to be making our API.
But instead of sending back.
Jason sorry about that.
We're going to be sending back a Web site.
OK.
So let's say from flask import flask and then say app equals flask underskirt underscore name underscored
underscore.
Notice this is two separate underscores and not just one.
So what we're doing is we're importing a class called flask from the flask package where we've installed
and then we're saying we're creating a variable called app and we're saying that that variable contains
that object and the parameter we're passing to that object is underscored underscore name underscore
underscore.
I'm going to set in a breakpoint there and then right click anywhere and debug app and noticed what's
the name on this to underscore variable as it is to underscore main underscore underscore as a string
.
So that is what the name of the police Americanness will mean on those grounds.
Now that is a special type of content.
Sorry that didn't come out right.
No special type of contd.
It's a special contract when name equals almost identical mean to underscore that means that we ran
this file we ran the app Doppie Wi-Fi.
OK I'm going to stop right there.
Go into the log in Doppie.
Set a breakpoint essentially anywhere and then right click on debug.
Notice that on this one the name on the underscore is still on the one that could mean on this one that
and that is because now we ran the loggin file so whichever file we run it's on the underscore name
on this one underscore is going to be on this one the main this score.
OK.
That's always the case the file that you run is going to have that name.
Other files will not have that name.
OK.
Then what we want to do is say app dot run and then we'll see Port equals Formanek file.
You can set essentially any port you want there but for the 9:5 is a good port.
It probably won't cause you any problems with it.
If that does fail if you press run and it doesn't work just change the port number and I'm sure it will
work OK.
OK.
So what is now happening here.
We've created an app and we fully to run.
But what does this app do.
Well let's press play again.
And now it tells you running on hatred dippie colon slash slash one to seven point 0.00 point 1 call
on 4 9 9 5.
I'm sure you recognize the 4 9 9 5 as being the Pt. 1 2 7.00 point option 1 is equivalent to localhost
.
And we saw that in the sequel in the Portugal sections.
Localhost is your current computer.
So what this is saying is that this is running in your local computer on port 4 9 9 5 Your computer
has a lot of ports and applications can attach to a port and what that means when an application attaches
to the port.
Is that you can communicate with that application via the port.
It's essentially like an interface but the port is very limited in what it can do we can only to receive
data packages data packets.
Sorry.
So what this is saying is that we are running this application in the local host your common computer
on port 4 9 9 5 and we can actually click on that is a link and that loads up Safari or in your case
Google Chrome Internet Explorer whatever you are using.
So this is a Web site these 6:59 point 0.03 one is a is a web site but it says not found it says the
request that you or I will was not found on the server.
OK.
So obviously we did something.
And here is the voila moment for you I'm sure you recognize this stuff.
Get slash Hastey slash 1.1.
When we saw things before we saw things like get Hage P to do with WWII EPRI example Dotcom's lash users
for example.
We've seen that before.
And what that was is get cases case you one point one slash and that slash there is the same as this
slash here.
OK let's go back into safari and instead of slash we're going to say slashy users not found.
That's fine.
But now see how we get slash users in the logs not me because Safari has said Get me on this host 6:59
put open up one call on 4:9 and 5 the endpoint slash users.
So when we try to access that was essentially
that that users endpoint is the one we're trying to access and that is because flask knows that this
is the or else so it doesn't show it there.
But really we're accessing all of this.
And notice how in these logs the you are right is there as opposed to being at the end.
That's fine.
And those also notice how we're using his version 1.1 as opposed to version 2.
That's also fine.
One point one was popular for many many years and it still used widely.
OK so everything is not found.
How do we make things found.
It's actually not that difficult at app dot route.
And then a string and then a slash slash once again identical to this one or that one we are requesting
we're setting here what is going to happen when we access the homepage.
The empty slash.
And then we create a method on page for example
show what this is doing it is saying OK define a method called home page which returns hello world and
apply to it.
This code here this is called a decorator.
We're going to look at decorator's later on in the course.
Right now just know that what this does is it say when we access the forward slash endpoint return the
content of this math.
So let's save that and rerun the app and then let's refresh this right remove the users that meet up
that way.
Now we get.
Hello world.
Remember what we've done is get the forward slash which is that forward slash.
And then the content that comes out is whatever is returned by this method which in this case is Hello
world.
So this is quite magical.
We have a Web site.
The website didn't do much granted but we have a Web site which returns.
Hello world.
Don't know if you already know about hitch DML and so on.
A lot of my students already do know about each DML and CSX.
So here from flask as well as importing flask and water go into import rendered template and instead
of returning hello world I'm gonna return rendered template home page TNL.
OK.
In the project I'm going to write click and create a new directory called templates has to have this
name templates.
That's important.
And then I'm going to create a new file called home dot page DML.
And here we're going to just put the basic page DML if you don't know much about that just copy it for
now and we'll get there.
OK.
So if you don't know which to him out that's absolutely totally fine.
We're going to get into what the e-mail is soon in this course not in much detail because this is not
a course about web development but we will get into a bit about it.
Now as we develop this section up basically the first thing we have to specify is the sort of hitched
the metal version the document type of this file and this document type is Hetu email and then we say
OK now we're going to be writing hasty mail code.
That is what this opening and closing tags do.
And then we say OK the head of the document.
These are things like CSSA javascript and sort of the title of the page.
Things like that things that the user cannot see.
If you don't know what CSL and Javascript aren't that don't worry we're going to look at that as well
.
It's actually things that user cannot see.
And then the body things that user can see and then we're putting in a huge one and we've seen this
previously very briefly.
This is the biggest header in the amount a title essentially and we're saying hey each one and then
close each one and Raemer all tags in HCM L R and between these crocodile clips the close the opening
tag is just the tag inside the crocodile clips the closing tag is the tag preceded by a forward slash
.
So we're seeing in say the page one tag.
Hello world.
Let's save that and then go back here and refresh.
With me to restart the app.
Now we see Hello world there which is quite impressive because with this small amount of code we can
now send the user a Web site as opposed to having a command line application.
And what that means as well is that now we can deal with Twitter redirecting to our Web site as opposed
to an necessitating a pin which is quite great.
And it's going to make things a lot nicer.
And that's everything for this video I just really wanted to introduce to you the concept of flask throughout
the next few videos we're going to be making sure that we can display the images that we got from here
.
We're going to be displaying those images on our Web site as opposed to just kind of displaying some
text on the console.
The plain packs on the console is not that fun.
But if we can show the images in like a gallery or something that may be actually a bit more interesting
maybe maybe useful now.
So this is how we would do that we would import the flask object sets and the app to be flask on the
name on the ground the score and then sent it the route.
Right now we've only got one defined for the home page but you could just as well do things like users
or users slash list you know whatever.
And then when the when your visitors go into that specific endpoint they will see whatever is returned
by the method.
And at the end we run the app.
Ok that's everything for this video.
We've looked at creating hatred male serving application using flask and we're going to be exploring
more about flask hits the mail CSSA and so on.
Not in much detail but we're going to be looking at that throughout the next few videos.
I'm excited about all this so I'll be seeing you in the very next video